Title: TIL - Today I Learned 
Date: 2022-12-16 17:00
Category: Blog
Tags: til, zettelkasten
Author: Christopher
Summary: Start posting TIL to potentially help others as well as myself.
Status: published
comment_id: til

## Overview

I currently put my notes in a
[Zettelkasten](https://zettelkasten.de/introduction/) and currently have it in
a private git repo.
What I found is that there are some notes that are more like Today I Learned
(TIL).

## Why Post TIL

I originally heard on a podcast but
[Simon wrote an article](https://simonwillison.net/2022/Nov/6/what-to-blog-about/)
about blogging and doing Today I Learned.
My original thinking was that 9 times out of 10 I found out something by
reading it from somewhere so why share as it is not new?
Afterwards and also noticing others using social media for TIL, I realized that
if I found something useful, others may find it useful.
Also if the source of the information was so useful to me, then I should share
that with everyone else.

## Why Not Share My Zettelkasten

I could just either share my private Zettelkasten or share a sanitized one.
The method to created it I learned watching
[PyBites' video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rxgi12c3sEY).
Beyond the issue of making sure that I don't share something that I shouldn't
or isn't useful, the main issue it would be in a git repo and not my blog.
Also I already have over 200 personal notes using this method and I only
started a couple of months ago.
This to me would cause potentially more noise than I would like.

Simon has a [good method](https://til.simonwillison.net/) but for now, I will
just include them in my blog and create a separate category for them.
Since my notes are in Markdown, I just need to add the header block to work
with Pelican.

## Next Steps

While I may have some TIL only on social media, I think my primary vehicle will
be this site.
I can use the search feature when I need to find my TIL and unlike my notes,
can expand a little further on how the TIL helps me.

