+++
title = 'Reboot using Hugo'
date = 2024-08-24T15:33:48-05:00
lastmod = 2024-08-25T23:25:00-05:00
draft = false
author = 'Christopher Tyler'
tags = ['github','hugo','hextra theme','pelican']
summary = 'Migrating away from Pelican to Hugo.'
+++

## Overview

Will take awhile to rebuild my website as my plan is not to have all the same
posts that I had before.

## Setup

Still will use GitHub pages except I am using GitHub Actions to build these pages.
Using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and since I use Ubuntu, just using the offical
snap.
I am initially using [Hextra theme](https://imfing.github.io/hextra/) as it
supports light and dark modes.
I just blew out my old git repository that I used
[Pelican](https://getpelican.com) since I had a `pelican` branch that had the
source code and `master` which the static HTML pages resided.

## Initial Structure

Will keep it simple and have the following pages:

- Posts
- About page
- Resume
- Resources
- Search

## Next Steps

I will like to add the ability to search and will slowly add some of my previous
articles/posts.
I still need to learn how to do things in Hugo but I don't think it is going to
be too difficult.

**Update:** I added some more to the initial structure since it was only a few
days since this post.
Also I plan on creating some requirements on how I would like to to interact
with my website, the purpose, etc.
Finally I would like to document what it took to set it up so that I won't have
the problem like I did with Pelican.
