+++
title = 'Attempt to Create a Link Blog'
date = 2024-12-26T18:30:00-06:00
draft = false
author = 'Christopher Tyler'
tags = ['Simon Willison', 'blog', 'Trey Hunner']
+++

I read [Simon's post](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Dec/22/link-blog/) earlier
this week and it helped me form my own thoughts. Initially I wasn't going to add
any posts to my website that basically would either be a copy and paste with
very little to add. For example, in Trey Hunner's newsletter (which he did expand
in a longer [article](https://treyhunner.com/2024/12/lazy-self-installing-python-scripts-with-uv/)):

---

The main use case I have for uv involves this scenario:
 
I've written a standalone Python script that I want to be globally accessible on my machine, but it requires a third-party dependency.
 
With uv installed, can write a script (called normalize in this case) and then stick this in the top of my file:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env -S uv run --quiet --script
# /// script
# requires-python = ">=3.12"
# dependencies = [
#     "ffmpeg-python==0.2.0",
#     "openai==0.27.2",
# ]
# ///
```

And then I throw that normalize file in one of the "bin" directories that's n my
PATH. After that, I can run the command normalize from anywhere on my machine and
it just works!
---

Other than maybe spinning it a different way, I didn't feel I had anything to
really add. Simon had 4 parts to his post:

1. Writing about things I’ve found
2. Trying to add something extra
3. The technology
4. More people should do this

## Writing about things I've found

This I already do but I don't really share. Mostly I don't feel I have anything
to add. I keep notes in either Obsidian or Apple Reminders. 

## Trying to add something extra

This was one of the more interesting parts of the article (at least for me). I
struggled with sharing something that I found and trying to add something without
providing enough credit or something new. This caused me to either not share or
take weeks to share. Instead I am going to take the less time and just share it.
I am going to think of it posting a link on Mastodon instead. I can always either
add or make a new larger article.

## The technology

Switching from Pelican to Hugo (both are static site generators), my hope is to
make it a little easier to post. Still need to do some improvements such as
search by tag(s).

## More people should do this

I haven't really post much on Mastodon and I never really considered to post on
LinkedIn. 

## Next Steps

My goal for 2025 is to try and post more. Worry less about the tooling and treat
my website more of a resource that I can go back to (and hopefully others can
use as well).
