Title: Zettelkasten Workflow
Date: 2023-05-20 15:00
Category: Workflow
Tags: workflow, zettel, zettelkasten
Summary: How I use Zettelkasten using vim and fzf.
comment_id: zettel_workflow
Status: published

## Overview

Over the years I tried different methods of note taking from paper notes, using
apps and none quite worked because I each method have certain downsides.
Paper notes have a low friction how putting in notes but can be difficult to
search for stuff.
Using apps I had to conform to their paradigm and trying to sync with my
different devices (getting Linux support and iOS support at the same time was
more difficult than I thought).

Using [Zettelkasten](https://zettelkasten.de/introduction/) helped me organize
my notes and seeing
[Bob Belderbos's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rxgi12c3sEY) made it
easy for me adopt.

## Quick Primer on Digital Zettelkasten

Basically instead of having detailed potentially long notes, instead keep
atomic notes that has the following:

1. A single focus to make it easier to scan and understand.
2. Source references so you know where the info came from.
3. Tags though keep the tags to around 3 or so.
4. Useful links so that it can make it easier to see potential connections.

Since I decided to do a digital instead of a paper one, I needed a method to
employ tags to aid in searching.
I also use what I call super tags, though I did get the idea from
[Structural Layers in Note Taking article](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/three-layers-structure-zettelkasten/).
My super tags is how I link my notes together.
For example, I may be working on a project that involves weather, SQL and
machine learning.
Each of those notes would have tags like `#temperature`, `#postgresql` and
`#scikitlearn` for example.
None of those notes would link together but I could add
`##predict_weather_project` to link those notes together.

## My Digital Zettelkasten Tooling

Prior to seeing Bob's video, I was reading
[Edwin's series](https://www.edwinwenink.xyz/posts/42-vim_notetaking/) on how
he was using vim.
It gave me the idea of using CLI tools since I am usually on the computer,
especially at work.
The tools he used besides vim I don't normally use and he was trying to
replicate the Zettelkasten paper method.
After watching Bob's video I took a look at his
[git repo](https://github.com/bbelderbos/bobcodesit) as well as
[the gist](https://gist.github.com/benevidesh/d78f7681120a13d5386ea55b39d82c9b)
that gave him the idea.

I use CLI tools that should work in either Linux or a Unix-like such as MacOS
or FreeBSD.
However the tools are not required to create/view/search notes either.
I also use git to store the notes.
While I have my notes in my private [Gitea](https://gitea.io/en-us/), you could
use something like GitHub or GitLab.
Using git means that I can view my notes using a web browser or putting the
git repo on said device.
All my notes are written in Markdown which will get rendered in
Gitea/GitHub/GitLab.
I have an index which has a table of contents at the top so that I can quickly
jump around.

On the CLI, I have scripts to create new notes `zn`, search notes by title `zs`
and search notes by tag `zt`.
I use vim to create my notes as that is my editor of choice though
[micro](https://micro-editor.github.io/) would be my second choice.
Using `zn` will automatically create a timestamp file located in my notes
folder and open vim.
Searching notes is a combination of [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf),
grep, sed and [bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat) (cat could be used instead)
in a bash script.
Finally I have a python script that will build the index.
I have two indexes; one for notes and the other that I call super notes.
My super notes (structured notes) is when I want to link notes together.

My code and example of notes are located https://github.com/cetyler/notes which
will have the TILs that I have in my blog.

## My Zettelkasten Workflow

I initially used this workflow for work but then expanded it for everything
else.
I keep separate Zettelkasten for work and personal.
I also use the tooling for other projects.

### Work

Most of my notes are finding snippets of information that I will need to refer
back.
For example I found out how to include the schema in a PostgreSQL connection
string from
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59298580/how-to-specify-schema-in-psycopg2-connection-method).
That note have the link where I found the information and a quick description
how to do it.
I then included tags `#postgresql` and `#psycopg2` so that I can find it
later.
My goal is to keep the note atomic and not too many things.
Notes from webinars, conferences, etc. I try and keep the notes to a particular
topic and will split into multiple notes when needed.

Longer training and books I also keep the notes atomic and separate to a
particular topic.
I include a `#book` tag for books are `#training` for training videos.
I also include the author's name as well as where the training came from to
again ease in searching.

My meeting notes I don't separate.
Each note is for a particular meeting.
I also use a super tag `##company_name` so that I can look for them in my
super/structured index.
My previous jobs this would be unwieldy since I was in a lot of meetings.
Instead I would use a super tag by project since my projects had a specific
start and end.

I don't use it for any task list, just notes.
I don't plan on removing any old notes though I am contemplating removing
obsolete notes from an old version of Python that no longer exists in the
current version.

### Personal

During my weekly review, I will go through any work notes that could be useful
in my personal life.
For example, I found out about Zettelkasten at work and continued researching at
home.
I then copy those notes over as well as any personal notes that could be useful
for work.
This usually only takes less than 5 minutes so I will continue to keep my notes
separated.

I also include notes like if I did some maintenance around the house so that I
can search later if I need to know when something was done.
I don't put any task list and only keep notes.
Any temporary notes don't go here but I use Apple Notes as I will delete the
notes within a few days.

### Other

I use the scripts created for my notes to keep track of my SQL scripts.
I have a separate git repository and rename `zn`, `zs`, `zt` to `qn`, `qs`
and `qt`.
I use this for both work and personal queries for the past 4-5 months and it
has worked pretty well.
Similar to my notes, it makes it easy to find that scripts and code snippet
to use with a particular project.

## Summary

I included my [public notes](https://github.com/cetyler/notes/tree/main) to
show how the tooling works.
This workflow has stuck much more than other methods that I have tried.
Keeping the notes atomic and keeping the tags for each notes to a minimum, I
can search my notes quickly.
